---
layout: post
title: '3 Weeks In'
date: 2019-01-22 7:00 pm
---

Since we’re now about 3 weeks into 2019, I figured I’d quickly see where I’m at in terms of my goals for the year.

## Losing Weight & Improving Strength

I’m down about 4 pounds so far, so that’s good. The bad is that I could still be a little stricter on what I eat. I have more good days than bad, but there’s still quite a bit in the middle I could improve on. I’m not about ready to completely give up burgers and the “less-than-healthy” options, but my self control to turn away the cookie, or slack off and order a pizza is a little higher than I would have preferred. I also haven’t been the greatest at sticking to a dry January, but I’m still drinking less than I normally do, so I’ll count that as a win.

In terms of my lifts at the gym, I finally crossed the 200 lbs. threshold on bench press, so I’m excited about that. Next bench press day, I’ll be going for 205 lbs. for the first time ever. I’m currently doing 3 sets of 5 for deadlifts, so that’s stalled a bit at 295 lbs., but I generally feel like I’m getting stronger.

## Reading More

I am about 2/3 through _The Forever War_ by Dexter Filkins which would be my 2nd book of the year. I could read more I suppose, but I’d say I’m on the right track.

## Working on my Side Project

This one I’ve made no progress on. I need to continue on with the tutorials. I really just need to set aside some time for it.

## Writing More

I’ve tried over the last couple of weeks to come up with an idea for a post or something to write, but so far I’ve been drawing blanks or have started something only to just delete it because I feel it’s not worth continuing for whatever reason. Again, I should probably just set aside some time and write, even if whatever it is I’m writing never sees the light of day.

## Other Things I Have Been Doing

Some of the things that I have done in the meantime is start catching back up on my video game backlog. I finally played through Uncharted: The Lost Legacy, and have started FarCry 5. The Lost Legacy definitely is worth playing. It continues the Uncharted series fantastic gameplay and story telling. FarCry 5 has been a lot of fun so far as well, but I’m not that far into it. I’m going to try to keep working and hope to knock out some more games.

Moving on, I’m hoping to continue working towards my goals and hopefully make some progress on just about all of them. The first 3 weeks weren’t bad, but I think I can do better!
